Global warming
"That so many of us are here today is a recognition that the threat from climate change is serious, it is urgent, and it is growing. Our generation's response to this challenge will be judged by history, for if we fail to meet it - boldly, swiftly, and together - we risk consigning future generations to an irreversible catastrophe."

These are the words President Obama used to begin his global warming speech before the United Nations Summit in 2009.

Search Google for global warming and you will get almost 65 million pages of results.

The subject has certainly drawn a lot of attention. But just what is global warming? What is causing it? What effects does it have on the earth and its inhabitants? What are some possible solutions? These are the questions that I will be addressing in this short, informative speech today.

Global warming is the gradual increase of the temperature of earth's atmosphere and oceans.

Over the past century the average temperatures have gone up by just over one degree. This may not seem like much, but many scientists agree that the earth's temperatures are starting to increase at a faster rate.



Global warming occurs when greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, and methane trap heat inside the earth's atmosphere.

Think about what happens when you open your car door after the windows have been rolled up on a hot day. Heat from the sun enters the car, but the frame of the car prevents it from escaping.

To a small extent, this is a representation of what happens during global warming. Burning fossil fuels like petroleum and deforestation both contribute to the problem.

Global warming has already started to affect the earth in several ways.

Arctic glaciers have begun to melt, threatening indigenous life such as the polar bears. Melting glaciers also cause sea levels to rise. This could become a problem for low land areas like the ones in the South Sea Islands.

Ocean temperatures have begun to rise. This causes some of the algae to die which can affect the entire food chain.

There are ways we can combat the effects of global warming. The Clean Air Act of 1990 is a law in the United States that attempts to protect and improve the earth's air and atmosphere.

Some of the components of this law include limiting harmful vehicle emissions and phasing out the use of chemicals that can damage the ozone layer.

On a more personal level, we can work to prevent global warming by planting trees and by car-pooling.

Climate change is seen as a serious threat that is receiving serious attention world-wide. Hopefully, this global warming speech has helped inform you of what causes it and the effects that it has on the earth. It's up to you to decide how you can help to do something about it.


This speech isn't written to persuade or motivate the audience to do anything about the effects of global warming. It is an informative speech, only meant to give the facts.

If you are really passionate about the subject you may want to turn it into a persuasive speech on how people can help to minimize the damage to the planet we engage in every day.

Watch the video below to see what the President of the USA has to say about climate change and where he sees it heading in the future.

His talk would be considered a persuasive speech on global warming.

If you want to get controversial, on the other hand, you may want to give a speech on how climate change is a hoax! Do a little research and you'll find there are many people who seem to think it is.

Whichever way you want to go, you can use this global warming speech as a starting point to create a presentation of your own.